Language fundamentals:


	
 Explain java features and what is platform independence in java?
	
 Explain datatypes available in java?
	
 Explain implicit casting and explicit casting?
	
 Explain about an Array?
	
 Explain Naming conventions in java?
	
 Explain JDK, JRE and JVM?
	
 What is the Source file structure in java?
	
 What is a .class file?
	
 Why main method is public static? Can I pass the arguments to main method?
	
 Explain few operators? Ans why we use == operator?


OOPS:


	
 Explain OOP and features?
	
 Explain about a Class?
	
 Explain about an Object?
	
 Explain about instance variables?
	
 How do you identify local and instance variables and what is the difference between them?
	
 Explain about instance methods?
	
 Explain about Constructor?
	
 What is the difference between constructor and a method?
	
 Explain Abstraction?
	
 Explain Encapsulation?
	
 What is the difference between Abstraction and Encapsulation?
	
 Explain Inheritance? Why multiple inheritance is not possible in java?
	
 Explain Polymorphism?
	
 What is method overloading?
	
 What is method overriding?
	
 What is the difference between overloading and overriding?
	
 Explain dynamic method dispatch?
	
 What is the advantage of Super class reference to a sub class object?
	
 Explain Object casting?
	
 Explain Super key word?
	
 How do you prevent a method from being overridden?
	
 Explain about abstract key word and abstract class?
	
 Explain about Interface?
	
 What is a marker interface? Any example?
	
 Explain String class & String Buffer?
	
 How System.out.println() works?
	
 Explain about final key word?
	
 Explain about static key word?
	
 Can static/final methods be overridden?
	
 Explain instanceof operator?
	
 Explain Access Modifiers and Non access modifiers in Java?
	
 What modifiers are allowed for a class?
	
 What Access modifiers allowed for a constructor?
	
 Explain about package in java? What is the default package?
	
 Explain import in java?
	
 Explain toString() method?
	
 Explain Auto Boxing and Auto unboxing?
	
 What is Co variant return type?
	
 What is Variable length argument?
